Add CONTRIBUTING.md (#1199)
containers/netavark: CONTRIBUTING.md

    person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified
    it.

(d) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution
    are public and that a record of the contribution (including all
    personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is
    maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with
    this project or the open source license(s) involved.
```

Then you just add a line to every git commit message:

    Signed-off-by: Joe Smith <joe.smith@email.com>

Use a real name (sorry, no anonymous contributions).
A real name does not require a legal name, nor a birth name, nor any name that appears
on an official ID (e.g. a passport). Your real name is the name you convey to people in
the community for them to use to identify you as you. The key concern is that your
identification is sufficient enough to contact you if an issue were to arise in the
future about your contribution.

If you set your `user.name` and `user.email` git configs, you can sign your commit automatically with `git commit -s`.

### Code review

Once the PR is submitted a reviewer will take a look at. Should nobody respond to it

> within 2 weeks please ping a maintainer, sometimes PRs are overlooked or forgotten.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
within 2 weeks please ping a maintainer. Sometimes PRs are overlooked or forgotten.
```

> Keep an eye out for the CI results on the PR. If all is well then all tasks should succeed, on some

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keep an eye out for the CI results on the PR. If all is well then all tasks should succeed. Some
```

> repos the CI time can take several hours until the tests are finished. If something failed try to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
repos the CI time can take several hours until the tests are finished. If something failed, try to
```

take a look at the logs to see if that seems related to your change or not. Then try to fix your
code or the test depending on what you think is right. If you are unsure or think it is

> unrelated ask a maintainer, some tests are flaky and pass on a re-run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
unrelated, ask a maintainer. Some tests are flaky and pass on a re-run.
```

> After the reviewer/maintainer took a look they either write a comment stating `LGTM` (looks good to me)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the reviewers or maintainers take a look, they either write a comment stating `LGTM` (looks good to me)
```

and approve the PR, in which case you do not need to do any further changes, or they write a comment
with review feedback that you should address. Note that most changes require two reviews so only the
second reviewer will actually merge the PR.

> If changes were requested do them locally in your branch and the amend them into the commit from the PR,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If changes were requested do them locally in your branch and the amend them into the commit from the PR.
```

> you can use `git commit -a --amend` for that. This will add the current changes to the previous commit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use `git commit -a --amend` for that. This will add the current changes to the previous commit.
```

Please do not push extra commits that say things like "apply code review" or "fix x" where x is a bug

> introduced in a commit from your PR. In that case always squash the change into the right commit to keep

Reviewer: ```suggestion
introduced in a commit from your PR. In that case, always squash the change into the right commit to keep
```

the git history clean. Our projects merge the commits as is and will will not squash them on merge to
preserve the full original context.

### Rebasing

> When you created a branch to work on the fix/feature it no longer will be updated with the latest changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you created a branch to work on the fix/feature, it no longer will be updated with the latest changes
```

from the upstream `main` branch. In order to keep your branch up to date you should rebase.

In order to do so add the upstream repo as remote in git, i.e. for containers/common use:
```

> $ git remote add upstream git@github.com:containers/common.git

Reviewer 2: might want to update the example repo URL to netavark here

> $ git remote add upstream git@github.com:containers/common.git

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$ git remote add upstream git@github.com:containers/<repo name>.git

- repo name == netavark
```

```

Then fetch the latest changes there with
```
$ git fetch upstream
```

And assuming you are still in your fix/feature branch:
```
$ git rebase upstream/main
```

> If the PR is open longer you may have to rebase. You must rebase when there is a merge conflict,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the PR is open longer you may have to rebase. You must rebase when there is a merge conflict.
```

> this means the lines that you changed were also changed after you created your branch and in this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means the lines that you changed were also changed after you created your branch and in this
```

> case git does not know what the right change is. You will need to manually resolve it, check

Reviewer: ```suggestion
case git does not know what the change is right. You will need to manually resolve it, check
```

for more information on how to do this.

It is recommended to always rebase on a new push to ensure it is testing against the latest code.

## Rust Dependency updates

To automatically keep dependencies up to date we use the [renovate](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate) bot.
The bot automatically opens new PRs with updates that should be merged by maintainers.

However sometimes, especially during development, it can be the case that you like to update a dependency.

To do this, you can either run `cargo update` (to update all dependencies) or change the version of the specific dependency you want to update in `Cargo.toml`.

Please run `make` after this to ensure the project still builds after your dependency updates.
It may be necessary to make code changes to address the updates dependencies.

Then commit the changes and open a PR. If you want to add other changes it is recommended to keep the
dependency updates in their own commit as this makes reviewing them much easier.

## Find bad changes with git bisect

git bisect is very powerful command in order to quickly find commits that caused a regression.

> For example assume you did a Podman update and now something that used to work fine is no longer working,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example assume you did a Podman update and now something that used to work fine is no longer working.
```

> this is called a regression. If the change was not intentional it may be hard to find out what caused it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is called a regression. If the change was not intentional, it may be hard to the cause.
```

> git bisect can help with that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `git bisect` can help with that.
```

> First you need to know the last working version and the the new version were is stopped working and you

Reviewer: This sentence does not read well.  I think you only need a working version, not the last working version (or you would have your problem nailed down already no?

should have a simple test for you behavior. Then run
```
$ git bisect start <bad version> <good version>
```

Now git will go through the commits between them via binary search to find the first bad commit.

> You need to compile the binary, then do your test and see if this works or not then use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to compile the binary. Then do your test and see if the regression exists.  Then use
```

Reviewer: you might consider reworking the flow of the next few sentences.  I might suggest here saying if the regression no longer exists, then mark it with ... and if the regression still exists, mark it with ...

```
$ git bisect good
```
if is is working or if it is not working:

```
$ git bisect bad
```

> Then again compile and test and repeat the steps until git found only one commit left, this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then  compile and test and repeat the steps until git found only one commit left.  This
```

> should be the first bad commit. If you file an issue this information is very useful to us

Reviewer: ```suggestion
should be the first bad commit. If you file an issue, bisect information is very useful to us
```

developers to quickly see the root cause.

Given this can be a long manual process you can automate the bisect run if you have a good reproducer.
For example lets assume there is regression with `podman run $IMAGE someCommand` where it fails to
run and throws and error.
You can automate this after the bisect start command to give the good and bad version by using
```

> $ git bisect run sh -c "make podman && bin/podman run $IMAGE someCommand || exit 1"

Reviewer 3: It would be good to have a chapter on how I import my changes into the podman. I would expect a similar chapter like this  https://github.com/containers/common/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#test-changes-in-a-dependent-repository

```

> This will run the given command there for each command git steps through and if the command returns 0 it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will run the given command there for each command git steps through and if the command returns 0, it
```

assumes good version otherwise a bad version. `make podman` here is required to recompile podman each
time we are at a new commit. This is important as it would not test the correct binary for the given
commit otherwise leading to very wrong results. Then after this run your test of choice. You can also
pass complex scripts or commands as long as the exit code is 0 for the good case and > 0 for the bad
one it will work.

> Note git bisect is not perfect sometimes it will fail to find a bad commit. This can have many reason

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Somtimes `git bisect` is not perfect . It will fail to find a bad commit. This can have many reasons
```

> but a common is that the problem is not podman but rather some external dependency, can be a a dynamically

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but commonly the problem is not podman but rather some external dependency like a dynamically
```

  in that case a maintainer can decide to merge without tests.
* Documentation updates to reflect the changes made in the pull request often found in the `docs/` directory.

Squash your commits into logical pieces of work that might want to be reviewed separate from the rest of the PRs.
Code changes, test and documentation updates should be part of the same commit as long as they are for the same
feature/bug fix. Dependency updates are best kept in an individual commit. Totally unrelated changes, i.e.
fixing typos in a different code part or adding a completely different feature should go into their own PR.
Often squashing down to just one commit is acceptable since in the end the entire PR will be reviewed anyway.
When in doubt, ask a maintainer how they prefer it.

When your PR fixes an issue, please note that by including `Fixes: #00000` in the commit description.
More details on this are below, in the "Describe your changes in Commit Messages" section.

This repository follows a two-ack policy for merges.
PRs will be approved by an approver listed in [`OWNERS`](OWNERS) file in the root of the repository.

> They will then be merged by a repo owner. Two reviews are required for a pull request to merge.

Reviewer 3: Does this apply to this repository?

Author: Yes, we use this for all repos. Netavark and Aardvark only have 3 maintainers right now which makes it interesting to try and make work, but it is our goal.

It is recommended to always rebase on a new push to ensure it is testing against the latest code.

## Rust Dependency updates

To automatically keep dependencies up to date we use the [renovate](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate) bot.
The bot automatically opens new PRs with updates that should be merged by maintainers.

However sometimes, especially during development, it can be the case that you like to update a dependency.

To do this, you can either run `cargo update` (to update all dependencies) or change the version of the specific dependency you want to update in `Cargo.toml`.

Please run `make` after this to ensure the project still builds after your dependency updates.
It may be necessary to make code changes to address the updates dependencies.

Then commit the changes and open a PR. If you want to add other changes it is recommended to keep the
dependency updates in their own commit as this makes reviewing them much easier.

## Test Changes with Podman

While Netavark and Aardvark have their own test suites, to fully test the tools, it is important to verify they function with Podman.

> The easiest way to do this is to place them in the `/usr/libexec/podman` folder, replacing the existing `netavark` and `aardvark-dns` binaries.

Reviewer 2: I move them always to `/usr/local/libexec/podman` then you don't overwrite the system ones. Might be easier, of course you have to trust the helper binary seach order to consider /usr/local/libexec before /usr/libexec
